.TH csv2xls 1 2012-10-03
.SH NAME
csv2xls
.SH SYNOPSIS
csv2xls [OPTIONS] INPUT_FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads csv file INPUT_FILE and writes its contents into one or several Excel(TM) file(s).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 7
\fB-b N\fP
set input buffer size for parsing csv to N bytes.
Defaults to 1048576 (1 MB). Maximum value is 4294967296 bytes (4GB).
.TP 7
\fB-d C\fP
set csv tab delimiter to C. Default: ';'
.TP 7
\fB-h\fP
print help and exit.
.TP 7
\fB-H\fP
Take first line from csv file as head line for each
produced Excel(TM) file.
.TP 7
\fB-l N\fP
break xls output into files with maximum N lines.
Maximum value and default value is 65536.
Starting with the second file the file name will be expanded with a number.
Minimum value is 2.
.TP 7
\fB-o name\fP
Set output file name to 'name'. If this option is not set,
take csv input file name and replace '.csv' with '.xls'.
If 'name' does not end with '.xls', it will be added by program.
.TP 7
\fB-w name\fP
Set the excel worksheet name to 'name'. Defaults to 'Table 1'.
.TP 7
\fB-D num\fP
Set excel file name numbering to \'num\' digits with leading zeros.
Defaults to '4'. Maximum value is 10.
If file names for output files are extended by a number you can set the minimum
digits for this number. The number will have leading zeros, if the actual number
has less digits.
.TP 7
\fB-v\fP
Print program version and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 7
\fBcsv2xls data.csv\fP
results into data.xls.
If data.csv has more than DEFAULT_MAX_LINES the result will be data.xls and data0001.xls.
.TP 7
\fBcsv2xls -l 200 data.csv\fP
Like before but sets DEFAULT_MAX_LINES to 200.
.TP 7
\fBcsv2xls -o addresses.xls data.csv\fP
results into addresses.xls.
If data.csv has more than DEFAULT_MAX_LINES the result will be addresses.xls and addresses0001.xls.


